Software Carpentry Foundation Interim Board Meeting
===================================================

November 4, 2014, 19:30-21:00 UTC
---------------------------------

Attending

* Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry Foundation)
* Neil Chue Hong (Software Sustainability Institute)
* Kaitlin Thaney (Mozilla Science Lab)
* Josh Greenberg (Sloan Foundation) - on etherpad
* Jenny Bryan (UBC)
* Damien Irving (University of Melbourne)
* Tracy Teal (Data Carpentry / BEACON)
* Katy Huff (UC Berkeley)
* Adam Stone (LBL: Sick, No Voice)

Apologies

* Carole Goble (U. Manchester)

Etherpad: https://swc.etherpad.mozilla.org/board-2014-11-04

Actions
-------

* Board: mext meeting on Tue Nov 18 (same time unless Doodle poll
  finds a better one).

* Board: vote on bylaws/funding model at Nov 18 meeting.

* Board: add all funding/partnership leads to `funding` directory of
  `board_pvt` repository with details of what is being offered by end
  of business on Friday Nov 7 2014.

* GW to separate the list of current funding proposals into "immediate
  action" vs. "those that require confirmation of partnership/revenue
  model".

* GW/JB: sort out ownership of funding repository.

Unresolved
----------

* Board agreed to discuss roles and responsibilities of Board members
  at next meeting, but nobody was assigned to draft.

* GW would like to begin talking to several potential partners (list
  included below), but meeting ended before this could be discussed.

Resolutions
-----------

* Job description for Executive Director approved.
  * See `executive-director.md` in public `board` repository.

* Executive Director position offered to Greg Wilson.
  * Greg provisionally accepts conditional on agreement on SCF by-laws

* Description of the role and responsibilities of the chair approved.
  * See `board-chair.md` in public `board` repository.

* Board Chair position offered to Neil Chue Hong.
  * Neil accepted on the provision that it is the chair of the interim board.

* Board to vote by email on final text of mission statement for the
  Software Carpentry Foundation by Thursday Nov 6.
  * See `mission-statement.md` in public `board` repository.

* The acronym "SCF" will be used for the Software Carpentry Foundation.

* Guidelines for issue escalation and communication between workshop
  coordinators, the Executive Director, and the Board of Directors
  adopted.
  * See `issue-escalation.md` in public `board` repository.

* "Pursuit of Funding" resolution adopted, and all Board members
  promptly inform the Board of all ongoing fund-raising activities
  involving Software Carpentry.
  * Note: wording "on an Etherpad" in original text has been replaced
    by "in the Git repository and by email", since we're moving away
    from Etherpads (see below).

* Documents for discussion will be managed through the Git repository
  rather than through Etherpads, and conversations will be managed
  through GitHub issues.

Discussion
----------

* Should Board members sign non-disclosure agreements?
  * No.
  * Instead, sharing of information (i.e. a culture of disclosure).
    should be enshrined in the description of the role of a Board
    member.
* How to balance funding sought by SCF vs funding for SCF through
  partners?
  * Good faith.

* Do board members share specifics of what they're offering to do
  w.r.t. Software Carpentry with potential partners to help with
  capacity planning etc.?
  * Yes.

* The Board requested more time to comment on the three-tier model for
  partnership, and committed to voting at the next meeting on Nov 18.

* The board requested more time to comment on the revenue sharing
  model for workshops, and committed to voting at the next meeting on
  Nov 18.

* For next meeting:
  * Approval of by-laws.
  * Approval of partnership model.
  * Approval of revenue sharing / management model for workshops
   * including agreement of what to do with future workshop donations
  * Define/vote on roles and responsibilities of board members.

* For subsequent meeting:
  * Propose operations communication procedure for SCF staff and
    workshop hosts.
    * Requires linkage to partnership model.
