Software Carpentry Foundation Interim Steering Committee Meeting
================================================================

December 16, 2014, 19:00-20:30 UTC
----------------------------------

Attending
---------

 * Greg Wilson (Software Carpentry Foundation)
 * Katy Huff (University of California - Berkeley)
 * Neil Chue Hong (Software Sustainability Institute)
 * Damien Irving (University of Melbourne)
 * Tracy Teal (Data Carpentry / Michigan State)
 * Jenny Bryan (UBC)
 * Carole Goble (U. Manchester)
 * Kaitlin Thaney (Mozilla Science Lab) *joined late*

Apologies
---------

 * Adam Stone (LBL)

Actions
-------

* DI to get example of personal services contract for GW from Mozilla Science Lab.
* GW to get example of personal services contract for GW from NumFOCUS.
* GW to draft blog post on how to stand for election and what being elected will involve based on DI's outline.
* GW to ask if NumFOCUS staff can act as returning officer for Jan 2015 election.
* GW to circulate names of other potential Advisory Council members.
* GW to circulate list of current members of Software Carpentry Foundation.
* KH to check consistency between document describing Steering Committee roles and other documents.

Resolutions
-----------

* Establish interim budget committee consisting of JG, TT, and KH with GW attending as Executive Director
* Approve guidelines for election drafted by DI
* Adopt Steering Committee roles outlined by KH:
  * Chair
  * Vice Chair
  * Treasurer
  * Secretary
* Amend Governance document to allow co-opted appointed members of the Advisory Council drawn from the wider community
  by amending clause 5 to include the additional sub-clause:

    d. The Advisory Council may decide to co-opt additional persons to
       the Advisory Council from the wider community at any time, with
       a default term of one year. The number of co-opted members
       shall not exceed the number of partners and affiliates
       represented on the Advisory Council. Co-option shall be done by
       majority vote of the Steering Committee.

Discussion
----------

* Next meeting date: Jan 6, 2015
* Establishment of interim budget committee
* Discussion of proposed budget for 2015
  * Focus on recruiting affiliates
  * Challenge: arranging extra sustained coordination effort for arranging workshops
* Steering committee election
  * Discussion of nomination and voting process drafted by DI
  * Discussion of guidelines for nominees drafted by DI
  * Discussion of need for a returning officer
* Discussion of invited members of the Advisory Council
  * Defer inviting people to join AC until we know who's standing for election
* Discussion of Steering Committee roles
* Defer discussion of Advisory Council roles to next meeting
