<h1>Software Carpentry Steering Committee Meeting Minutes</h1>
<p><strong>Date:</strong> 2016-04-21</p>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<h3>Steering Committee Members</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jason Williams</li>

<li>Raniere Silva</li>

<li>Bill Mills</li>

<li>Rayna Harris</li>

<li>Belinda Weaver</li>

<li>Kate Hertweck</li>

</ul>
<h3>Staff</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jonah Duckles</li>

<li>Greg Wilson</li>

<li>Maneesha Sane</li>

</ul>
<h3>Others</h3>
<ul>

<li>Tracy Teal</li>

</ul>
<h3>Not attending</h3>
<ul>

<li>Karin Lagesen</li>

</ul>

<h2>Updates</h2>

<h3>Update #2016-04-21/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Raniere Silva.</p>
<p>Text: Instructor Training for the Software Sustainability Institute is in place.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-04-21/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Proposal for New Zealand Catalyst Fellowship sent with support letter from Software Carpentry.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-04-21/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Data Carpentry and Software Carpentry joint membership was approved by email vote. It will be online soon.</p>



<h2>Motions</h2>

<h3>Motion #2016-04-21/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Approve call for Subcommittees and Task Forces.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: Software Carpentry will invite community members to proposal new subcommittees (more than six months life span) and task forces (less than six months life span). Proposals can include request to financial support.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-04-21/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Approve Time Zone Rules for Steering Committee Meetings</p>
<p>Resolution: Rejected.</p>
<p>Details: Future Steering Committee meetings will start with a video conference meeting of one hour. After the video conference meeting we use Slack for 24 hours to answer questions of members that couldn’t attend the video conference meeting. At the end of this 24 hours period, votes are computed.</p>
<p>This motion was rejected because it has many looks that would be difficult to keep track.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-04-21/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Bill Mills.</p>
<p>Text: Clarify Fee Schedule Text</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: Language around fee schedule on the public-facing website was unclear, making fees seem mandatory for self-organized workshops, leading to unnecessary fee waiver requests. We could change the text so it does not change any fees, but makes more explicit what is required when. Also drops commitment to administrative support for self-organized workshops.</p>



<h2>Discussions</h2>

<h3>Discussion #2016-04-21/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: In-person Retreat Agenda</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed to next meeting due lack of time.</p>



<h2>Actions</h2>
<ol>

<li><p>ALL: Have a look on the agenda for the in-person meeting.</p></li>

<li><p>Bill Mills: Create pull request on http://github.com/swcarpentry/board/ covering the rules for subcommittees and task forces.</p></li>

<li><p>Bill Mills: Create pull request on http://github.com/swcarpentry/website with blog post about new rules for subcommittees and task forces.</p></li>

<li><p>Bill Mills: Merge https://github.com/swcarpentry/website/pull/341.</p></li>

</ol>
