<h1>Software Carpentry Steering Committee Meeting Minutes</h1>
<p><strong>Date:</strong> 2016-04-06</p>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<h3>Steering Committee Members</h3>
<ul>

<li>Karin Lagesen</li>

<li>Jason Williams</li>

<li>Raniere Silva</li>

<li>Bill Mills</li>

<li>Rayna Harris</li>

<li>Belinda Weaver</li>

</ul>
<h3>Staffs</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jonah Duckles</li>

<li>Greg Wilson</li>

<li>Maneesha Sane</li>

</ul>
<h3>Others</h3>
<ul>

<li>Tracy Teal</li>

</ul>
<h3>Not attending</h3>
<ul>

<li>Kate Hertweck</li>

</ul>

<h2>Updates</h2>

<h3>Update #2016-04-06/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles</p>
<p>Text: Executive director serves on DataONE’s Community Engagement and Outreach Working Group.</p>

<p>Details: There will be two annual trips and monthly conference calls. The first trip will be a trip to Santa Barbara, CA in May.</p>


<h3>Update #2016-04-06/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles</p>
<p>Text: Sue McClatchy of Jackson Lab has written two grants that include SWC.</p>


<h3>Update #2016-04-06/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles</p>
<p>Text: Moving ahead with a trip to Brazil.</p>

<p>Details: Raniere is helping to schedule meetings.</p>


<h3>Update #2016-04-06/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles</p>
<p>Text: I will be teaching for the first time since I took over as ED at a workshop in Denver on April 12-13 as part of ESIP-FED/USGS training. DC and SWC will be running concurrent workshops.</p>


<h3>Update #2016-04-06/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles</p>
<p>Text: Teaching in Mexico June 8th-9th and arranging meetings with potential collaborators and partners in Mexico City and Leon, Guanajuato while I’m there.</p>

<p>Details: Thanks to Belinda for introducing me to Selene while I was in Queensland!</p>




<h2>Motions</h2>

<h3>Motion #2016-04-06/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Raniere Silva</p>
<p>Text: Approve instructor training event to be delivered to Software Sustainability Institute by Aleksandra Pawlik and Steve Couch on Edinburgh on 7th May.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed</p>

<p>Details: No monetary or time commitment costs from Software Carpentry.</p>


<h3>Motion #2016-04-06/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams</p>
<p>Text: Open call for a new round of Subcommittees and task forces.</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed to next meeting due request of rewrite</p>


<h3>Motion #2016-04-06/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams</p>
<p>Text: Adopt Time Zone Rules for future Steering Committee meetings</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed to next meeting due request of rewrite</p>

<p>Details: We have a difficult time to find a meeting where everyone can participate at normal working and/or biological hours. The Time Zone Rules allow Steering Committee members to responde in a 24 hours time spam.</p>


<h3>Motion #2016-04-06/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles</p>
<p>Text: Allow Executive Director to pursue a “Royal Society of New Zealand Catalyst Leaders Fellowship”.
</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed</p>

<p>Details: Executive Diretor is applying in conjunction with The University of Otago and NeSI for a Fellowship that “Supports exceptional individuals from any country outside New Zealand to catalyse science and innovation capability and capacity in New Zealand for a minimum of 4 weeks per year for up to 3 years”. We’re working on ways that the effort would support activities in New Zealand to test our model for top-down coordination (NeSI) and bottom up (U of Otago) approaches to expansion of Software and Data Carpentry activities. This would have me working to develop a strategy and playbook for how we can engage at various levels to expand Software Carpentry.</p>




<h2>Discussions</h2>

<h3>Discussion #2016-04-06/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Raniere Silva</p>
<p>Text: Settle a good workflow to achieve the minutes and those public.</p>

<p>Resolution: Raniere will write procedures.</p>


<p>Details: No monetary or time commitment costs from Software Carpentry.</p>


<h3>Discussion #2016-04-06/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams</p>
<p>Text: In-person Retreat Agenda</p>

<p>Resolution: Postponed to next meeting due request of rewrite</p>





<h2>Actions</h2>
<ol>

<li>Raniere Silva: Write the procedures.</li>

<li>ALL: Have a look on the agenda.</li>

<li>RS: Email Aleksandra informing the decision.</li>

<li>JW: Work on rewrite the proposal.</li>

<li>RH: Work on rewrite the proposal.</li>

<li>BM: Work on rewrite the proposal.</li>

<li>JW: Will clean the text on the proposal.</li>

<li>Jonah Duckles: send proposal before 2016/04/14.</li>

<li>Jason Williams: Write letter as the Software Carpentry Steering Committee Chair saying that the Software Carpentry will allow Executive Diretor to make the commitment to working on the project.</li>

</ol>
