# Steering Committee 2017-11-14
- 1 pm Central and 6 pm GMT
- Link to connect: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/971868289
- Link to rules for steering committee meetings:  https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/blob/master/governance.md and https://archive.org/details/Robertsrulesofor00robe_201303 
- Link to Code of Conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct/ 

## Summary
This was a short meeting give low attendance. No formal decisions were made. 
The discussion focused on 1) the transition to the new fiscal sponsor, and 2) maintaince and growth of SWC lessons.

## Attendance:

### Steering Committee Members Attending
- Christina Koch
- Rayna Harris

### Steering Committee Members Not attending:
- Kate Hertweck
- Mateusz Kuzak (sick)
- Sue McClatchy (driving to Connecticut)
- Karin Lagesen

### Carpentry Staff Attending
- Jonah Duckles

## Agenda
- Updates from board and staff members 
- Discussion items
- Formal Motions

## Non-verbal/Brief Updates from board members

### Chair’s Updates (Kate Hertweck)
-    Apologies for my absence, and thanks to Christina for chairing the meeting
-    Communicating with Tracy about ongoing conversations with lawyers regarding transition to Community Initiatives

### Vice-chair updates (Christina Koch)
- Mentoring
   - Jamie Hadwin stepping down, looking for new co-chair
   - Continuing to coordinate with Kari as new staff contact
   - Mentoring groups have started
   - Scheduling tool: contact people, have reminders, integrate w/ calendar
- SWC “lesson org” Task Force (discuss later)
- Nominations for Community Service Awards (also discuss later)

### Treasurer updates (Sue McClatchy)  
#### Updates
- 3rd quarter report: https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/smcclatchy-05-may/finances/reports/2017/Q3/quarterly-report.md
- October monthly report: https://github.com/smcclatchy/board_pvt/blob/smcclatchy-05-may/finances/reports/2017/10-oct/monthly-report.md


### Secretary updates (Rayna Harris)
#### Updates
- Question: When should the merged committee start publishing minutes?
- Discussion: Open minutes are an important part of the community philosophy, and they help communicate our activities to the community. Make it clear that we will have public minutes. Also, the Merger committee has done a lot of communication with the community, dealing with responses to the RFCs, so it is not necessary to go back and publish minutes from previous meetings.
- Action: Rayna will set a precedent for publishing minutes by starting to do so with the next merged committee meeting.

### Update from the Executive Director (Jonah Duckles)
- Community Initiatives has accepted us as a project: A letter to NumFOCUS was sent, and a meeting should be scheduled soon to plan transitions. Tracy and I are continuing to meet with CI regularly to plan for the transition. Staff will have to be re-hired to CI; offer letters and job descriptions will be sent to CI HR for onboarding. We’re still working out some specifics and have a meeting with them today after this meeting. 
- Bylaws, I am hopeful that when we have Adler & Colvin send NumFOCUS an engagement letter we can have Adler & Colvin help us put together some bylaws that reflect the structure the transition committee is looking for.
  - Is there anyone working on bylaws for the transition team?
  - If not, I think having “legalistic”  bylaws that would prepare us for an eventual transition to a free-standing non-profit would be my preferred way to go. 
    - I think we should be able to express what we want to the Lawyers and they will adapt existing non-profit governance structures and reflect their wisdom and insights.  
     - We do not need any bylaws at all.
  - Nuances of the merger and transition to CI
     - USDA Cooperative Agreement  - $90,000 was very hard to get signed, and may be hard to transition to a new entity. 
     - Tracy just received a ~$500,000 Sloan Foundation grant that will have to have its first installment arrive at NumFOCUS. This is a grant to expand lesson development to three new communities for Data Carpentry.
     - These two above instruments may prevent some amount of money moving from NumFOCUS to CI.
     - Tracy is thinking of leaving Data Carpentry as an Open Project at NumFOCUS. I have advised that optically this does not look good when we’re trying to merge and close projects. I have recommended that we ask NumFOCUS to allow us to create a new project that will have a clean set of books to run these, and only these two projects through.
- What’s in a name….aka THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ain’t gonna fly.
    - CI calls project leadership teams Advisory Committees
    - Ethan White suggests we ask if we can form an Executive Committee in our structure, so people get THAT sweet-as title.
    - We want something that gives a bit of cache to our committee members, but we also want to be compliant. 
- State of memberships:
    - There are 56 Current Members - 4 out for signatures - 8 very close to onboarding and 12 in the wings with terms being finalized. For reference: total payroll across the carpentries is at about $700,000/year
    - Of the active memberships, we have 30 new members (in the trailing 12-months), so we’ve doubled in revenue since this time last year. With 20 other memberships close to signing, we’re going to quite a clip!
    - Instructors: We have commitments to train 698 instructors in our 56 active agreements. 

 
#### Minutes
- The fiscal committee will approve the dissolving of the existing steering committees and with the approval of the community. 
- The linked document will be the agreement to transition from NumFocus to Community Initiatives as our fiscal sponsor. We can send an email vote to approve. CI’s policies and procedures for projects 
- We will need to start moving money. CI will receive a 10% “tax” on all money transferred.
- Jonah is still signing some partnerships that are going through NumFocus because of their organization's strength, rather than postponing it until January. 
- All ~50 current members will have to sign a form saying they agree that they need to move finances from NumFocus to CI. Most organizations understand that this is in our and their best interest. 
- **Action item for the merger committee/future steering committee**: email to partners saying old organizations and old fiscal sponsorship dissolved and announcing the new organizations and sponsorship will move forward.
- Data Carpentry just got a grant from the Moore Foundation, but the money goes to NumFocus. Jonah and Tracy both have ideas for how this money can stay with NumFocus but be used by the Carpentries, which will be sponsored by CI. This is a problem that we need to find a good solution because we need to be able to pay staff with this money and have them be paid as staff via CI rather than as self-employed. 
- State of memberships more than doubled since this time last year. 26 new and 20 renewing. 


#### Action items
Request - a little more detailed information about the logistics of administering the Moore Grant that is going to NumFocus
 
## Discussion items 
###  Topic 1: DC lessons in SWC workshops
- **Summary:** What is the official stance on using non-SWC lessons in an SWC workshop? 
http://lists.software-carpentry.org/pipermail/discuss/2017-October/005520.html 
- **Presented by ** Christina
- See: https://github.com/carpentries/conversations/issues/16

#### Minutes
-  Stems from a discussion on the discuss list. Can we issue a clarifying statement about what our expectations are? The loosest definition is in instructor training that says you cover UNIX, scripting language, and Git. How do we say something that isn’t too prescriptive but that sets guidelines that match our core values?
- Can we articulate what should be covered by the modules? Could be addressed with revised learning objectives
- Having lessons come from two websites can create some confusion. Is there ways that we can bring some of the Data Carpentry lessons over to the workshop website. 
- Better articulate what it is to be an SWC workshop so that its helpful without restricting people from doing good things for their community
- Adding narrative transitions linked parts of the lessons can help the workshop feel more cohesive?
- Let’s give and get feedback from the community on this. 
- There should be a way that we can communicate that the Unix, scripting, git model works fantastically for some workshops, especially for organizations that have never hosted a workshop or that are for novices, but we also do want to expand our definition of other types of workshops, like those hosted on a regular basis or those that are for more advanced uses.

## Adjourn
