<h1>Software Carpentry Steering Committee Meeting Minutes</h1>
<p><strong>Date:</strong> 2016-11-30</p>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<h3>Steering Committee Members</h3>
<ul>

<li>Karin Lagesen</li>

<li>Jason Williams</li>

<li>Raniere Silva</li>

<li>Rayna Harris</li>

<li>Kate Hertweck</li>

</ul>
<h3>Staff</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jonah Duckles</li>

<li>Greg Wilson</li>

</ul>
<h3>Others</h3>
<ul>

<li>Tracy Teal</li>

</ul>
<h3>Not attending</h3>
<ul>

<li>Bill Mills</li>

<li>Belinda Weaver</li>

<li>Maneesha Sane</li>

</ul>

<h2>Updates</h2>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Williams.</p>
<p>Text: Meeting with Advisory Council.</p>
<p>Details: The Advisory Council need to elect a new chair. We need to better talk with the advisory.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Alix Keener, Rayna Harris, and Greg Wilson have put together a draft proposal to use as a basis for discussion (and for recruiting other people who want to work on CarpentryCon). Goal is to have a full proposal by the end of January that the Steering Committee can vote on.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Lauren Michael and Christina Koch are going to take the career Q&amp;A sessions to the mentoring committee.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Steering Committee signaled official support for Library Carpentry and look forward to working with this new community.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Progress on Nordich escience negotiation.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/6</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: British Library is looking to target humidity.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/7</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Virtual assisting is going OK.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/8</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Some Git repositories on GitHub are pinned to highlight them due some changes on how GitHub list repository.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/9</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Instructor Training for CUNY on 2016-11-03.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/10</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Instructor Training for Jackson Lab on 2016-11-07.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/11</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Open online Instructor Training on 2016-11-15.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/12</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Instructor Training for Met Office on 2016-11-24.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/13</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: 79 instructor certificates awarded in November.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/14</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: We will probably have instructors for ~13 in-person and ~15 online instructor training events for first half of 2017.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/15</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: New version of AMY deployed.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/16</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Working on year-end update message to existing instructors.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/17</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: On going conversation with Library Carpentry leaders about instructors' training.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/18</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Planning to institute regular calendar of demo sessions starting on January 2017.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/19</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Conversation with Open Data Institute about their instructor training.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/20</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Discussion with Tim Dennis about becoming a trainer.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-11-30/21</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Compute Canada will probably ask for one of their staff to become a trainer as well.</p>



<h2>Motions</h2>

<h3>Motion #2016-11-30/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Kate Hertweck.</p>
<p>Text: We will offer four open online instructor training sessions a year. Conditional revisions to online form, publishing rubric, describing training on a "scholarship" basis.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: We currently have no open online training sessions scheduled, but demand for such training (e.g., from people at institutions who do not have a partnership agreement) continues. Although instructor trainings for partner institutions are our first commitment, we should endeavor to offer one open instructor training per quarter.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-11-30/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Change what we currently call "Partnerships" to "Organizational Memberships" in all places.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: Partnership is a legal term which means a joint-venture, our "partnerships" are not considered to be a "joint-venture" where we share risk. We've had several complaints from lawyers (on three continents) about this, and we have several organizations who have rules against being listed as "Partners" on our website. So-far we've removed the term "Partner" from our agreements and replaced it with "Member".  In order to list more of our supporters on our website, I suggest that we change how we refer to organizations that pay us an annual fee and call them "Organizational Members" on our website.</p>
<p>Action needed to change this language in text of:</p>
<ul>
<li>Website</li>
<li>board/governance.md (still refer to Affiliates and Partners language)</li>
<li>board/membership.md </li>
<li>Probably other places</li>
</ul>

<h3>Motion #2016-11-30/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Conduct online vote of Steering Committee members for community service awards, in which each Steering Committee member casts 2 votes, and the awards go to the persons receiving the most votes. In event of a tie, an extra award will be given.</p>
<p>Resolution: Rejected.</p>
<p>Details: We already approve the community service awards. We don't need motions about how we will go to handle votes.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-11-30/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Tracy Teal.</p>
<p>Text: Approve and adopt instructor no-show policy.</p>
<p>The Carpentries are usually not involved in travel arrangements for workshops. Instead, once instructors have been selected, they negotiate travel and accommodation with the workshop's host, and are then reimbursed directly by the host. In order to consistently provide high-quality workshops, however, the Carpentries must ensure that instructors fulfill their commitments. In particular, it must do what it can to ensure that instructors show up for workshops they have agreed to teach, so that hosts have the appropriate number of instructors and do not incur unnecessary expenses.</p>
<p>Instructors who find that they will not be able to meet an agreed upon teaching engagement are required to notify the Carpentry workshop coordinator as soon as possible. If travel arrangement have not been made, and the workshop is at least 6 weeks away, instructors may cancel with no questions asked. If non-refundable travel has been booked or it is less than 6 weeks from the workshop, instructors should clearly communicate the reason for missing their teaching engagement. The workshop coordinator will then handle communication with the host and attempt to find an alternate instructor if possible.</p>
<p>Depending on their reason for missing their agreed upon teaching engagement, instructors may be required to reimburse any non-refundable travel or accommodation costs that the host may already have incurred on their behalf. The Carpentries may waive this requirement in special circumstances outlined below, based on the judgement of the Carpentry Policy Subcommittee. </p>
<p>In some cases, the Carpentries will waive the requirement for the instructor to reimburse the host, and the Carpentries will reimburse the host for any expenses incurred. Circumstances in which the Carpentries will reimburse the host for any expenses incurred for missed workshops include, but are not limited to: illness, injury, family or work related emergencies, weather or transportation malfunction. Instructors may be required to provide appropriate documentation to the Policy Subcommittee. If an instructor is required to reimburse costs, but refuses to do so, or an instructor fails to provide adequate notice of withdrawal more than once, the Carpentries reserve the right to suspend their Carpentry instructor status.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-11-30/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Tracy Teal.</p>
<p>Text: Approve and adopt privacy policy</p>
<p>This Privacy Policy covers personally identifiable information that may be provided to Software Carpentry or Data Carpentry (the Carpentries), including data provided at in-person events (e.g., workshops) and online. Changes to this Privacy Policy will be posted on this page. Any changes will only apply to information collected after the posted date of any such change. Additionally, information may be provided to governmental bodies and other entities as required by law.</p>
<p>Information obtained and how it is used is described in sections below for </p>
<p>I. Workshop participants</p>
<p>II. Instructors and instructor applicants and trainees, and for </p>
<p>III. Online spaces</p>
<p>IV. All participants</p>
<p>How is personally identifiable information stored?</p>
<p>Personally identifiable information is stored in secure databases. </p>
<p>Who has access to personally identifiable information?</p>
<p>Access will be limited to Carpentries staff and authorized administrators. </p>
<p>Section I: Workshop Participants, including Learners, Helpers and Hosts</p>
<p>What information do we obtain?</p>
<p>We may obtain the name, email address and event attended of workshop participants. If you are a learner or helper, this information may be provided by you or by the workshop host.</p>
<p>How is this information used?</p>
<p>We use this information to communicate with participants, including sending workshop information and program evaluation forms. Additionally, we may use  your information to contact you about additional opt-in opportunities for training, teaching, and/or community engagement. This information may also be used for statistical purposes. We do not provide participant information to any third party for the purpose of selling or promoting any product. However, we may share aggregate or summary information regarding users with partners or third parties, including funding entities.</p>
<p>See Section IV: All Participants for further information</p>
<p>Section II: Instructors, Instructor Trainees and Applicants</p>
<p>What information do we obtain?</p>
<p>We may obtain the name and email address of participants at instructor training events and current instructors. This information may be provided by the participant or event host. If you choose to complete an instructor profile, this may include your name, email address, gender, nearest airport location, organizational affiliation, occupation, ORCHID ID, GitHub and Twitter handle, and personal URL.</p>
<p>How is this information used?</p>
<p>We use this information to communicate with instructors, including for instructor training events, training completion materials, communication about the organizations and opportunities to volunteer. Additionally, we may use instructor information to contact you about additional opt-in opportunities for training, teaching, volunteering and/or community engagement. This information may also be used for statistical purposes. </p>
<p>We do not provide participant information to any third party for the purpose of selling or promoting any product. However, we may share aggregate or summary information regarding users with partners or third parties, including funding entities.</p>
<p>See Section IV: All Participants for further information</p>
<p>Section III: Online Spaces</p>
<p>This Privacy Policy is applicable to information that you provided/collected through physical (such as a paper form) and online means, including through our websites or other online spaces (including GitHub repositories, Etherpads, and mailing lists).</p>
<p>What information do we obtain?</p>
<p>We may collect information about visitors' devices and browsers, such as browser version and type, IP address, website referred from and country of visitor. In addition, we may collect textual input (e.g. Etherpad entries) from you which may be associated with your name, affiliation and/or social media handles.</p>
<p>If you provide financial information to pay for a workshop or partnership or make a donation, the transaction information will be processed on a secured site. This information will only be accessible to our staff and to the staff of  NumFOCUS, LLC, our fiscal sponsor. </p>
<p>What  do we do with this information?</p>
<p>We use this information to improve our sites and services. In addition, we may use contact information that you provide to contact you about additional opportunities for training, teaching, and/or community engagement. This information may also be used for statistical purposes. We do not provide participant information to any third party for the purpose of selling or promoting any product. However, we may share aggregate or summary information regarding users with partners or third parties, including funding entities.</p>
<p>See Section IV: All Participants for further information</p>
<p>Section IV: All Participants</p>
<p>Can I decide what communications to receive?</p>
<p>Yes. Except for communications required to send participants program evaluation forms, and for instructors, information required to maintain instructor status, all communication with us is opt-in. You may occasionally be sent emails asking if you would like to opt-in to communication channels that we feel may be of interest to you (for example, a mailing list dedicated to your geographical area). In the absence of specific action from you, we will assume you choose not to join these channels.</p>
<p>Removing personal information</p>
<p>Participants may choose to disallow us from retaining their personal information at any time by notifying admin@carpentries.org. If you choose to exclude your information, we will delete your personal information from our databases. This may interfere with our ability to give you credit for training events you have completed or to contact you about upcoming events in your area.</p>
<p>Limitations</p>
<p>Your privacy is very important to us. However, due to the existing legal and technical environment (e.g., third party interception of information), we cannot ensure that your personally identifiable information will not be disclosed to third parties in ways not described in this policy.</p>
<p>We may disclose information when we believe such disclosure is necessary to comply with the law; enforce our agreements, or protect the rights, property or safety of our users or others. </p>
<p>What about third party links on our websites?</p>
<p>Our websites provide links to third party sites as a service to visitors. We are not responsible for the privacy practices, security measures or data collection practices of third party sites or for their content. The choice to access these sites is at the visitor's own risk.</p>
<p>Who should be contacted regarding this Privacy Policy?</p>
<p>For questions or comments about this Privacy Policy, please contact admin@carpentries.org.</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-11-30/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Empower CoC Subcommittee to roll out CoC enforcement.</p>
<p>Resolution: Rejected.</p>
<p>Details: The Steering Committee could get in a consensus.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-11-30/6</h3>
<p>Presenter: Karin Lagen.</p>
<p>Text: Approve the CoC, empower the CoC committee to enforce it.</p>
<p>Resolution: Rejected.</p>
<p>Details: Countermotion for the previous motion. The Steering Committee could get in a consensus.</p>



<h2>Discussions</h2>

<h3>Discussion #2016-11-30/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Karin Lagesen.</p>
<p>Text: Code of Conduct Review</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: The SC needs to review the status of the code of conduct and identify any process needed for future comments/action at the SC level.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-11-30/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Annual Report and Quarterly Objectives</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: We need to start working on a report of the 2016 activities and also bounce some ideas around for moving into a quarterly planning framework with goals and deliverables that the next committee can be handed off into. </p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-11-30/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Kate Hertweck.</p>
<p>Text: Lesson Maintainers and Lesson Developers</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: As our lessons have matured, the organization and leadership of the group of individuals maintaining the lessons requires a new approach. We are in the process of restructuring the responsibilities of maintainers, as well as forming a new subcommittee of Lesson  Developers, who will oversee general issues related to more than one lesson. The following two proposals are currently in development and feedback is welcomed.</p>
<p>Developer subcommittee proposal: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1RPexu1dkObvX980VINEnXAxczIyjdzs1wbDmV72Ba64 </p>
<p>Maintainer subcommittee revision: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1hdvolcxKWlu57wme1p4L-3CH_F9_ObZFW_A-E6OxZrM </p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-11-30/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Kate Hertweck.</p>
<p>Text: Strategic planning</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: What is the current status of reunification of the Carpentries? We haven't discussed this since our in-person meeting, but I know there's been movement towards consolidating policies, the website, etc. What is our strategy here? Is anyone else interested in a comprehensive organizational chart and/or list of roles/responsibilities?</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-11-30/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Rayna Harris.</p>
<p>Text: Carpentry Con Proposal</p>
<p>Resolution: Postponed</p>
<p>Details: Community building: bringing together members from around the globe:</p>
<ul>
<li>Professional development: We will have a "come and learn" format that is different from most conferences. </li>
<li>Contributed talks/posters: To help offset costs, there will be sessions where attendees can share how they have incorporated into their own research and teaching.</li>
<li>Aligns well with Library Carpentry gatherin, will celebrate mother's day in a uniquely scientific/community way.</li>
<li>In theory will be a self-funded event that spawns that covers its owns costs.</li>
</ul>



<h2>Actions</h2>
<ol>

<li><p>Kate Hertweck: Write blog post about ""scholarship"" for four online instructor training sessions a year.</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Replace "Partnerships" to "Organizational Memberships".</p></li>

<li><p>Jonah Duckles: Write blog post about instructor no-show policy and coordinate publication with Data Carpentry.</p></li>

</ol>
