<h1>Software Carpentry Steering Committee Meeting Minutes</h1>
<p><strong>Date:</strong> 2016-06-16</p>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<h3>Steering Committee Members</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jason Williams</li>

<li>Raniere Silva</li>

<li>Bill Mills</li>

<li>Rayna Harris</li>

<li>Kate Hertweck</li>

</ul>
<h3>Staff</h3>
<ul>

<li>Jonah Duckles</li>

<li>Greg Wilson</li>

<li>Maneesha Sane</li>

</ul>
<h3>Others</h3>
<ul>

</ul>
<h3>Not attending</h3>
<ul>

<li>Karin Lagesen</li>

<li>Belinda Weaver</li>

<li>Tracy Teal</li>

</ul>

<h2>Updates</h2>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Williams.</p>
<p>Text: Website.</p>
<p>Details: We are working with new Data Carpentry Associate Director to develop recommendations for website overhaul based on Google Analytics by September.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Karin Lagesen.</p>
<p>Text: Strategic plan.</p>
<p>Details: Karin and Belinda are working on the new Strategic Plan.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Meeting with <a href="https://www.dataone.org/">DataOne</a>.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/4</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Trip to Brazil.</p>
<p>Details: Many meetings. Jonah is working on some of the opportunities that came from the various meetings.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/5</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Trip to Mexico.</p>
<p>Details: Many meetings. Jonah is working on some of the opportunities that came from the various meetings.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/6</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: NSF iUSE at Doane College was funded.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/7</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: NSF INCLUDES Pre-Proposal wasn’t recommended for funding.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/8</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Royal Society of New Zealand Catalyst Leaders Fellowship wasn’t recommended for funding.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/9</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Partnership with <a href="https://www.leeds.ac.uk/">University of Leeds</a> is signed.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/10</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Partnership with <a href="https://www.sesync.org/">National Socio-Environmental Synthesis Center (SESYNC)</a> is signed.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/11</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Partnership with <a href="https://ucsd.edu/">University of California, San Diego (UCSD)</a> is sigend.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/12</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Partnershipt with <a href="http://www2.cuny.edu/">The City University of New York (CUNY)</a> is sigend.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/13</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Partnership with <a href="https://www.jax.org/">The Jackson Laboratory</a> is sigend.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/14</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jonah Duckles.</p>
<p>Text: Partnershipt with <a href="https://msu.edu/">Michigan State University</a> is sigend.</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/15</h3>
<p>Presenter: Maneesha Sane.</p>
<p>Text: Workshop administration.</p>
<p>Details: Workshops administration is going smoothly and July is going to be a quiet month for instrutors (something that we are expecting due summer vacations and summer schools).</p>

<h3>Update #2016-06-16/16</h3>
<p>Presenter: Bill Mills.</p>
<p>Text: Bug Barbecue</p>
<p>Details: It was a success!!!</p>



<h2>Motions</h2>

<h3>Motion #2016-06-16/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Software Carpentry Foundation adopts and abides by a shared proposal for the development of new (major lessons).</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: The proposal is described on proposals/lesson-incubation.md.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-06-16/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Approve African Guides task force.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: The proposal is described on https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/issues/118.</p>

<h3>Motion #2016-06-16/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Bill Mills.</p>
<p>Text: Approve 2016 Budget.</p>
<p>Resolution: Passed.</p>
<p>Details: 2016 Budget includes:</p>
<ul>
<li>Executive Director Salary (with raise of 10% when negotiate re-new of contract),</li>
<li>Instructor Director Salary (new job),</li>
<li>Coordinator Salary (with raise of 10% when negotiate re-new of contract),</li>
<li>Travel,</li>
<li>Executive Bonus,</li>
<li>NumFOCUS,</li>
<li>BlueJeans Subscription, and</li>
<li>Reserve Funds.</li>
</ul>
<p>This is the budget. <strong>Any raise need another motion to be valid.</strong></p>



<h2>Discussions</h2>

<h3>Discussion #2016-06-16/1</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Meeting Dates for this Q3</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: Suggested dates: July 7th, August 11th, September 8th, at our usual time 4:00PM US Eastern/8:00PM UTC</p>
<p>Previously we had suggested to have the meetings on the week before the lab meetings. The suggested dates aren’t on the week before the lab meetings. We will consider moving the lab meetings.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-06-16/2</h3>
<p>Presenter: Greg Wilson.</p>
<p>Text: Staggering Elections</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: Motion 4 at the May retreat required us to propose a plan. The Steering Committee have mixed feelings about the two years term because many people have reservations of committee for that period since is too long.</p>

<h3>Discussion #2016-06-16/3</h3>
<p>Presenter: Jason Wiliams.</p>
<p>Text: Bylaw updates</p>
<p>Resolution: Not Applicable.</p>
<p>Details: Minor changes and updates were suggested at https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/pull/122 based on May retreat.</p>



<h2>Actions</h2>
<ol>

<li><p>DataONE Users Group Santa Barbara - Worked to edit and finalize educational modules for DataONE that are shared via the DataONE website. Talked about building more open models for lessons that invite contribution. The organization isn’t sure what its future directions will be in this area, but they are considering a more community orientated model. Worked with Leah Wasser of NEON to make the presentations work with reveal.js and markdown via GitHub pages.</p></li>

<li><p>Bill Mills: Write a blog post about the bug barbecue.</p></li>

<li><p>Jason Williams: Add dates on Google Calendar and send email announcing the dates.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson:  Asked people that ran for election if they would had run for two years. Based on their replies, also ask on discuss mailing list.</p></li>

<li><p>Jason Williams: Request comments from the Advisory Board.</p></li>

<li><p>Greg Wilson: Write a blog post about the Lesson Incubation program.</p></li>

<li><p>Bill Mills: Write a blog post about the budget.</p></li>

</ol>
