# Trainer Business Meeting
 
## Attending UTC 14:00 (Maneesha)  x = present
San Francisco 7am , Philadelphia 10am , London 3pm , Oslo 4pm, Cape Town 4pm
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T07&p1=224
- Rayna Harris
- Maneesha Sane
- Jason Williams
- Karin Lagesen
- Sue McClatchy
- Martin Callaghan
- Aleksandra Nenadic
 
(Sorry, I forgot to ask someone to take notes. I've added in what I can remember from this morning's discussion.  Anyone else should feel free to add in any other comments.  -Maneesha)
 
## Attending UTC 22:00 (Erin)
Brisbane 8am FRIDAY, Melbourn 8am FRIDAY, Auckland 10 am FRIDAY, San Francisco 3pm THURSDAY, Philadelphia 6pm THURSDAY
See this link for your local time: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20170406T15&p1=224
- Christina Koch
- Maneesha Sane (for first 30 mins only)
- Belinda Weaver (first 30 mins only)
- Jeff Oliver
- Mark Laufersweiler
- Karen Word
- Naupaka Zimmerman
- Jonah Duckles
- Erin Becker
- Tracy Teal
- Tim Dennis
 
## Apologies
- Lex Nederbragt

# Agenda
 
- Training calendar for June - August 2017
- See confirmed schedule here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10qr987YT9qYi0NGO1sJhe3OHkIL70bbqtUbJNvhfC58/edit#gid=1698063111
- New trainees should shadow these events
- This document is shared with new partners, and they have a chance to sign up for training slots
- Q from Erin: at what point would we know what spaces are "unbooked" so we could possibly use them for open training?
- Times become unavailable a month out to partners --> maybe try this for June - Aug
- Could also just "reserve" times in the calendar up front --> will do with the Sept - Dec calendar
- Q from Belinda: no specific S. Africa time right now -- are they in the same time zone category as UK or Europe?
- Upcoming events are covered for now, may schedule these more on demand
 
- Training calendar for Sept - December 2017
- Maneesha would like to do the same thing we did to set up the Jun-Aug calendar.  Will send out a new Google doc & ask for everyone's availabilty by Friday, May 19.  Comments/suggestions on the *process*? (We will discuss the actual time commitment from each of you below)
- Goal is to have one training per month (Sept, Oct, Nov, Dec) in each of these six time zones  (US Pacitic, Mountain, Central, Eastern, UK & Eur)  (6*4 = 24 trainings total)
NOTES  
* Question from Maneesha:  how far in advance can you schedule things?  How soon is too soon?  2-3 months in advance is generally good -- some people may not know about Sept-Dec until August.
- In the future, as trainer pool increases -- will this scheduling system scale?
- Maneesha will be asking for trainer feedback.  :)
 
- Explicit Trainer Agreement
* How may training events are you able to commit to?  Most people say 2-3 per year
* How should this document (once finalized) be shared?  Not as an official contract - more as a way to share expectations before new trainers come on board
* Another model of offering training disucssed:  Trainers commit to teaching 2-3 modules, becoming experts in those modules.  They would then make themselves available  for a couple of hours every month rather than 2 full days twice a year.  Need to explore this more as new cohort of trainers comes on board. How would this affect continuity and the expereince for the learners?  Would this feel disruptive to the learners? 
 
- GitHub issue https://github.com/swcarpentry/instructor-training/issues/349
- Karin's GoogleDoc:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LWxy_hs3FRm3K2Q6eZti4FXqsbl574f5aCXwbWJ5adk/edit?usp=sharing
- Erin's Google Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/14Zi_W9uk1wua2v3zy8um6oMCnvO41Qfo1KwStCA-hos/edit
 
* Much of Karin's document is about our motivation, philosophy, etc.  Erin's document is about the practical expectations.  Underlying goals still seem to be the same.  We can work on merging things.
* Discussion: How long can an instructor be "inactive" before losing status?  Most people agreed a semester/few months is OK; 6-12 months or longer and they should have to do some kind of re-entry program
 
- Q from Belinda: could demos + discussions be interchangeable?
- Erin: demos can only be done by trainers, but if we eventually have enough trainers, could cover discussions too
- Jonah: pushing people interested in becoming trainers to discussion sessions, as a "starting point"
- Q from Belinda: running teaching demos for people you've taught?
- Erin: put a notice in etherpad for trainees to sign up with someone they didn't learn from
- Christina/Tracy: can't always make two meetings a month; is there a way to build in flexibility?  Suggest/require reading the notes?  
- Food for thought: How to strike a balance between people's busy schedules and building community via meeting once or twice a month? 
 
What to report
- Number of training events in the past month and where, number of attendees at each event
- Changes to checkout policies
- Number of trainees expected to checkout in current 90-day checkout window
- Significant changes to curriculum (we could see if it's having an impact on how prepared people seem)
- Anything particularly awesome - celebrate successes!
- Any particular consistent issues that might impact people going through mentoring
- Number of people going through teaching demos (and what lessons are popular?)
 
What info to get from mentoring
- How many people are attending discussion sessions as part of their checkout
- What instructor trainings are people checking out from --> This will be hard for us to tr
- What kinds of questions do new instructors have (maybe those are things we could cover during instructor training)
- Are there any no-shows? (maybe % of no-shows)
- what is acceptable particiaption to have it count for the instructor checkout as part of the reporting
ie. showed up but did not interact
- Anything particularly awesome - celebrate successes!
- Distribution of interest in DC vs SWC vs LC (or all three?)
 
Tracy to put together Google docs with template questions and circulate to mentoring and trainers for comments
We can use these templated documents for reporting out from the meetings
 
How are these data being used? (annual reports, preparation for future events)
Who are the consumers of these data? Mentors and Trainers (respectively)
 
- Mentoring committee communications
- Is anyone interested in being a liaison between the mentoring committee + this group?  Main duties would be to communicate relevant changes in the checkout process to the mentoring committee; and bring questions from the mentoring committee back to this group.  If you're interested, put your name down.  
- Related: for trainers who have recently hosted discussion sessions -- how engaged are the trainees?  
- To bring back to the subcommittee: how many people have been recently trained (that we should be expecting through the sessions)?
 
* No volunteers from the first group
* Belinda would be willing to do this
 
* Tracy's suggestion: create a standard form / report of information to send back and forth.  See suggestions for material above.
* Coordinate with Marian/Jamie on the mentoring side, and Erin/Belinda/Christina on the trainer side? 
 
- Carpentry checkout and Library Carpentry
- You may see a few folks checking out using Library Carpentry materials in the next month or so. This does not reflect a change in our checkout policy, as these folks were single-case exceptions. In general, new instructors must certify using SWC or DC materials. If there are any questions about specific individuals, please contact Erin or Maneesha.
- One of the recommendations/suggestions for LC instructors is to be a SWC/DC instructor.  
 
- Providing feedback from instructor trainers about instructor training events
- Would it be useful to have a form that we fill out about how things went +1 to this!
 * Yes.  The discussion sessions are a way to share feedback about how things went.  An official form to put this together would be useful
 
 Erin put together a template blog post set of questions (feedback for internal circulation would be more than this)
 https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iJROM0QynqzCKFh2hEkjUYWsEttDTPbrFZz-xcTwbzo/edit
 
Possibilities: 
    - half day hackathon for instructor training curriculum development
    - way to capture notes while they're fresh
    - incorporating both of these into the lesson publication cycle
    - using hypothes.is to annotate the lessons as we teach
 
## Non Vebal updates
- Rayna, Sue, and Tracy published a blog post about the recent instructor training event at the University of Puerto Rico! http://www.datacarpentry.org/blog/UPRtraining/
CK:  +1! Very exciting
 
 
