#2017 Carpentry Con Task Force Meeting Minutes

## When and Where
- December 19, 2017
- 13:00 Eastern
- https://bluejeans.com/u/Greg.V.Wilson/
- http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2017carpentrycontaskforce

## Attendance
Rayna Harris
Greg Wilson
Alix Keener

## Purpose
To discuss next steps after getting some feedback from a few members of the SWC and DC boards and staff members.

## Agenda items and discussion of summary from each
Review the suggestions/comments on the workking document https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit
- have a carpentry-centric keynote on first day.
- work on language some, make it clear that it's a draft
- new ideas where do we submit them?
- Draft: instead of making it look like a schedule
- replace name/topics with keynote 1, keynote 2, breakout 1, breakout 2, etc.
- at bottom put suggestions for these things

Decide how to get community input (issues? etherpad? working document? regular meetings?)
- how do we implement the new ideas? community voting on ideas? is that easy or not? we can set up votes. we can get a poll with which sessions are you most interested in. one problem is that you might get mroe suggestions after its too late to be able to implement them.
- should it be a requirment that if you submit an idea you must also put forth the effort to carry out? Yes!
- next goal. figure out if we have the man power to carry out the ideas

Discuss draft blog post to the comunity
- Ask people if you think will attend, put down your name, and space to put name if you also want to be on organizing committee/lead sessions/etc.
- Send out a message to Discuss on Tues January 3 2017

Discuss bringing on new task force volunteers and event organizers
- we will host a planning meeting to get feedback. this is where we will filter ideas and decide who carries them out
- Aim for first organizing call on Mon January 9 2017
- slots: 10am EST and 5pm EST

## Action items
- Greg: update google doc draft
- Alix: draft blog post and email
- Rayna: add minutes, prepare etherpad for next meeting

## Next Meeting
The next meetins will be on Monday January 9, 2017 at 10am EST and 5pm EST. http://pad.software-carpentry.org/2017carpentrycontaskforce
