Welcome to Software Carpentry Etherpad! This pad is synchronized as you type, so that everyone viewing this page sees the same text. This allows you to collaborate seamlessly on documents. Use of this service is restricted to members of the Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry community; this is not for general purpose use (for that, try etherpad.wikimedia.org). Users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html All content is publicly available under the Creative Commons Attribution License: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. 

After each meeting, these notes will be archived and publicly available here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon

Software Carpentry 2017 CarpentryCon Task Force

Proposed schedule, budget, and list of ideas/ suggestions
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit

Connection info:
    https://bluejeans.com/356077269

Past meeting minutes:
    https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/ce0a3817c52dfb0f1b5c626a47337ed849e9cfef/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon/minutes    

Attendees
Monday, February 6, 10:00 Eastern 
Arthur Endsley
Mateusz Kuzak (mateusz.kuzak@gmail.com)
Alix Keener (alixkee@umich.edu)
Fotis Psomopoulos (fpsom@issel.ee.auth.gr)
Malvika Sharan - joining for the first time (malvika.sharan@embl.de)
Jamie Hadwin (jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu) - am on the road right now - will not be joining the call this morning
Mark Laufersweiler (laufers@ou.edu) 

Monday, February 6, 17:00 Eastern
Tom Hohenstein (joining for the first time - I hope that's okay : ) of course!- sorry to miss this but a last minute scheduling issue came up : ( - Tom 
Rayna Harris rayna.harris@utexas.edu)

Agenda
1. Welcome & Introductions
2. Brief summary of the previous meetings
3. Announcements:
- Given uncertainty regarding travel in/to the U.S., we belive the May date is not feasible
- We will press ahead with fundraising so that we can have money in place when travel is more certain
4. Next meeting - in ~ 30 - 60 days

Carpentry Con proposal: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit

Postponing to Fall 2017. Different locations have been discussed. 
Malvika will look into the option of hosting the event in EMBL Heidelberg.
Fotis suggested having interchanchable European and American location.
Some people agreed it would be good to have first event for all countries, since this would be the first event to meet other Carpentries involoved people. In the future we may look into distributed event (eg. N America, Erupe, Australia and New Zeland)
Next meeting will be in 30 days (6th February)

Monday, February 6, 10:00 Eastern 

Welcome and Introductions
Arthur Endsley
Mateusz Kuzak (mateusz.kuzak@gmail.com)
Alix Keener (alixkee@umich.edu)
Fotis Psomopoulos (fpsom@issel.ee.auth.gr)
Malvika Sharan - joining for the first time (malvika.sharan@embl.de)
Jamie Hadwin (jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu) - was on the road during the time of the call. Caught up on notes below. Thanks!
Mark Laufersweiler (laufers@ou.edu) 


Brief summary of previous meeting 
-Mateusz: talked to Jonah about fundraising
-Talked to Rayna: will take over as steeriing committee rep

Announcements
-Postponing until Fall
-Possible to hold it on another continent? Germany?
-maybe follow RDA, alternating US and EU
-still would like to hold the first one in a location where the most people can attend, so likely U.S.

Next steps
-Next meeting March 6 10:00 and 17:00 EST <-- Do we really mean two meeting times? I would like to participate in the next discussion but not sure which time is the intended meeting time. 
-main discussions: fundraising and location
-Blog post and/or newsletter announcement about postponement
