Welcome to Software Carpentry Etherpad! This pad is synchronized as you type, so that everyone viewing this page sees the same text. This allows you to collaborate seamlessly on documents. Use of this service is restricted to members of the Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry community; this is not for general purpose use (for that, try etherpad.wikimedia.org). Users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html All content is publicly available under the Creative Commons Attribution License: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. 

After each meeting, these notes will be archived and publicly available here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon

# Software Carpentry 2017 CarpentryCon Task Force

Proposed schedule, budget, and list of ideas/ suggestions
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit

Connection info:https://bluejeans.com/356077269

Past meeting minutes: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/ce0a3817c52dfb0f1b5c626a47337ed849e9cfef/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon/minutes    

## Attendees
###Monday, January 23, 10:00 Eastern 
- Alix Keener, alixkee@umich.edu
- Mateusz Kuzak (mateusz.kuzak@gmail.com)
- Fotis Psomopoulos (AUTH-GR, fopsom@gmail.com)
- Kunal Marwaha (kmarwahaha@gmail.com)
- Mark Laufersweiler

### Monday, January 23, 17:00 Eastern 
- Rayna Harris, rayna.harris@utexas.edu
- Jason Williams, williams@cshl.edu
- Tracy Teal, tkteal@datacarpentry.org
- Greg Wilson, gvwilson@software-carpentry.org
- Jamie Hadwin, jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu
- Aleksandra Pawlik aleksandra.n.pawlik@gmail.com

Agenda
1. Welcome & Introductions
2. Brief summary of the previous meetings
3. Fundraising discussion
4. Work on high-level vision statement: what will attendees walk away with? And what can we tell potential sponsors?


## Monday, January 23, 10:00 Eastern 

###Attendees:
- Alix Keener, U-M
- Mateusz Kuzak (mateusz.kuzak@gmail.com @matkuzak)
- Fotis Psomopoulos (fpsom@issel.ee.auth.gr)
- Mark Laufersweiler (laufers@gmail.com)
- Kunal Marwaha (kmarwahaha@gmail.com)


### Notes:

1. Welcome & Introductions
2. Brief summary of the previous meetings
3. Fundraising discussion
Travel grants from ELIXIR (https://www.elixir-europe.org/) data for life sciences in Europe
now partnership is signed--so people might want to get involved and there where aleready few people involved through ELIXIR Data Carpentry Pilot
It's country-specific (but we cold try at the HUB)+1
selling point: they signed the partnership, it's in their interest to get involved in SWC
Talking to vendors: give them space
what might we have to do to create an area for vendors
could be colocated with breaks, coffee
Vendors also have tight budgets, wait til last minute to commit
Longstanding donors, for profit group with philanthropic arm (e.g. Microsoft)
Could we invite sponsors to attend, and also get them to donate funds?
e.g. NASA Develop (Kunal Marwaha is a contact, but I don't think they're ready to donate to this)
organizations we repeatedly teach at
SciPy
http://scipy2016.scipy.org/ehome/index.php?eventid=146062&tabid=332930&
USGS sponsors
Anaconda <- does this mean Continuum?
Microsoft - they integrated shell in Windows
Mateusz has some collaboration w/ Microsft Research (they are promoting Azure cloud for research purposes)
Amazon cloud
Berkeley: BIDS (institute for data science):
leads here https://bids.berkeley.edu/research/software-carpentry
Fatma Imamoglu, Karthik Ram, Justin Kitzes, Fernando Perez (the busiest but most connected)
I dont know who Daniela Ushizima is...
If you need Kunal to reach out please message me at kmarwahaha@gmail.com . Otherwise, other folks may know these people better.
Katy and Dav are no longer at Berkeley
fairly well endowed
gold+ sponsor of SciPy
RStudio?

### List of possible sponsors (see above)
ELIXIR for travel grants
Amazon Cloud Services (based on Genomics lesson in DC as well as a connection with Training Activities in ELIXIR; do not have a specific contact but if no better option I could contact them - Fotis Ps)
Links for Amazon Grants: https://aws.amazon.com/grants/ (specific for granting resources for training but could be a starting point)
NASA Develop (Kunal Marwaha is a contact, but I don't think they're ready to donate to this)
RStudio
Berkeley Institute for Data Science (see above)
USGS
Microsoft Research


4. Work on high-level vision statement: what will attendees walk away with? (This will also be useful in asking for money from sponsors)
Draft statements:
    
CarpentryCon will bring together members of the steadily growing Carpentry community, including instructors, partners, advocates, and staff. We will have a “come and learn” and unconference format that is different from most conferences: the schedule will be collaboratively developed by attendees, along with planned keynote speakers. The event will include sessions on teaching methods, curriculum development, community organization, and leadership skills. It will also give the opportunity to brainstorm on new lessons that will address the emerging data- and compute- needs of the new generation of researchers across multiple disciplines.

Effective software instruction for researchers has become essential in the 21st century. Software Carpentry  (and data carpentry, library carpentry ?) is the leading organization behind training researchers on (the computational skills they use regularly?) _______. The inaugural CarpentryCon will unite members of the Carpentry communities, connecting instructors and advocates, and inspiring future instructors & partners. Never has there been a conference devoted to programming education in academia; we feel it is long overdue.

## Next steps:
- Send list of possible sponsors to Fundraising Committee
- Reach out to sponsors if you have a contact!
- Continue to draft vision statement    
- Next calls: Monday February 6 10:00 and 17:00 EST


### Monday, January 23, 17:00 Eastern 
- Rayna Harris, rayna.harris@utexas.edu
- Jason Williams, williams@cshl.edu
- Tracy Teal, tkteal@datacarpentry.org
- Greg Wilson, gvwilson@software-carpentry.org
- Jamie Hadwin, jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu
- Aleksandra Pawlik aleksandra.n.pawlik@gmail.com

Minutes:
- TT: very excited about this and that people are coming together. Aligns well with community iniatives and fund raising efforts. All but Moore money comes from partnerships. would like to develope a portfolio of things that people can donate too. conerned about the may timeline. should come from staff or board members for fundraising or a community member only after an introduction has been made. so lets pick a few people that we empower to do that. can we focus on this being a regional event with a big CarpentryCon in 2018?
- GW: what is a reasonable timeline for a small event? TT - 1 year. 
- JW: what about a MicroCapentryCon as a test run with almost no money and no need for funding. people pay their own way. And part of that time can be spent working on a template for these small or big conferences. Folks at the plant genome research thing (https://nsf.gov/funding/pgm_summ.jsp?pims_id=5338) can give money on a very short term basis. Also a supplement from NSF could be a slow way to do this. 
- AP: timeline for may is tight for a global talk. last minute fight for local events took a lot of time. potentially can we bring people from representatives from places where we are trying to engage more people. can we bring 1 rep? this would be huge for those communities. can we get scholarships for these people. aligns well with our mission.
    
-  Example templates:
        - RezBas
        - Juypter Days
        - Center for Open Science!
        
Template for funding-
- whats the return on the investment?
- want to make sure they are excited? 
Who should develop and distribute this could be someone on the board or tracy or jonah could be a volunteer we just need to know who it is

### List of possible sponsors (in addition to above)
ORiley
ELIXER
Microsoft

Wait for the go/no go date before working on assigning a fundraising group. Can we get some materials together by this go/no-go date

- JH: +1 microcon regional events. are there other organizations like SWC/DC that we could partner with in term of working together for the first conference???  Like maybe open science
And maybe not necessary partner if a co-partnership might be complicated, but invite organizations similar to SWC in organizational structure. More of a get to know them this year, learn how they've developed funding for events, develop a relationship to strengthen approaching sponsors in the future - especially if we do a microcon this year. Although funding could be a possibility.
Ideas for co-locating: OpenCon (http://www.opencon2016.org/), Center for Open Science (not sure what events), Jupyter Days (http://blog.jupyter.org/2016/02/16/jupyterdays-boston-2016/), 
Idea from JH: invite some organizations to have some conversations about co-locating

- GW: could we co-locate with scipi
- JW: make some decisions based on what we have on the table given all the suggestsions and options. 

## Next steps:
- revisit go/no-go date for hosting an event in May in Michigan
- revisit previous materials that can be used for getting funding
- summarize suggestions and decide which to move forward with 
- Next calls: Monday February 6 10:00 and 17:00 EST
