( Looking for another Carpentries etherpad?  Check out the pad of pads: http://pad.software-carpentry.org/pad-of-pads )

Welcome to Software Carpentry Etherpad! This pad is synchronized as you type, so that everyone viewing this page sees the same text. This allows you to collaborate seamlessly on documents. Use of this service is restricted to members of the Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry community; this is not for general purpose use (for that, try etherpad.wikimedia.org). Users are expected to follow our code of conduct: http://software-carpentry.org/conduct.html All content is publicly available under the Creative Commons Attribution License: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. 

After each meeting, these notes will be archived and publicly available here: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon

Software Carpentry 2017 CarpentryCon Task Force

Proposed schedule, budget, and list of ideas/ suggestions
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit

Connection info:
    https://bluejeans.com/356077269

Past meeting minutes:
    https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/ce0a3817c52dfb0f1b5c626a47337ed849e9cfef/TaskForces/2017-CarpentryCon/minutes    

## Attendees
Monday, March 6, 10:00 Eastern, 16:00 CET
- Mateusz Kuzak (mateusz.kuzak@gmail.com)
- Fotis Psomopoulos (fpsom@issel.ee.auth.gr)
- Malvika Sharan (malvika.sharan@embl.de)
- Rayna Harris (rayna.harris@utexas.edu)
- Alix Keener (alixkee@umich.edu)

Monday, March 6, 17:00 Eastern
- Jamie Hadwin (jamie.hadwin@okstate.edu)



## Action items 
- **Action item:** Ask the Software Carpentry Steering Committee if we should move forward with a Fall 2017 event in the US or delay until the spring of 2018 and host in Europe or Candada?

## Meeting notes
- **When?** Fall 2017 Spring 2018
- **Where?**
  - Europe
  - US - Michigan
  - Candada, Toronto? could be easy for a lot of people
  - EMBL? need 1 year in advance
  - Australia or New Zealand
  - Toronto is leading choice--major airport, easier for Europeans to get visa, close to US. To make informed executive decision run by both the SWC and the DC board
- **Planning time line?**
  - need at least two months for most of the leg work
  - Visa - how long do you need? lots of waiting
  - sponsor for fund raising
  - venue - 6 months
  - if Fall is too tight, could think about spring 2018
  - spring would be a nice opportunity to kick off the new yaer
  - Give three suggestions for spring 2018 CarpentryCon
- **Program**
  - Would be helpful to plan actual program--for talking with sponsors
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit
- **Announcements:**
 - one below. sharing a timeline from someone who just organizaed a conference

## Next steps:
- Rayna/Mateusz ask Steering Committee about 1) spring 2018 2) location options in North America
- Everyone takes a look at the program (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NzZiTsPMArUyZ2S-pblOZZ84a-xp23Zuu6IjD-YXIEg/edit)
- Meet on April 3rd, 10:00am EST


## Announcements
An organizer for a recent Stan Con meeting shared his notes about the time committment for planning. It could be a useful resource Stan Con http://mc-stan.org/events/stsouancon

I'll start off with some information that would have saved us some time:
- get sponsor commitments early. We got two financial sponsors in the last couple weeks. A lot of my time was spent trying to stretch the few dollars we had.
- try to estimate the right ballpark number of people. I started pricing our services assuming we'd top out at 50 people. We got to 160.
I'm going to try to ballpark time commitment and total elapsed time. And I'm breaking it apart in just chunks that I was thinking about it.
- Post-conference: 2 days. Elapsed: 4 weeks. Clean-up, thank you notes, paying vendors.
- Conference: 1 day. Elapsed (for me): 1 day. We had 4 people at check-in for 2 hours, and then 2 people on duty at all times. We had a separate person for time keeping and one person for speaker wrangling.
- Swag:  2 days. Elapsed: 3 weeks. We packed our own, so that took 4 hours x 2 people + there was time in balancing #s and working through Eventbrite. It took us about a day to make orders and decide on vendors, decide on quantities, type of swag, design.
- Schedule / speakers: 1 day. Elapsed: 1 month. I spent about a day getting our coordinator working, but he spent a lot more time organizing.
- Conference programs / badges: - 2 days. Elapsed: 1 week. We printed these on our own and it took a lot longer than I had anticipated. We would have had less trouble if we knew we had sponsor money.
- Catering: 2 days. Elapsed: 1 month. I had to change the order 4 times between the start and end.
- Eventbrite:  1 day. I spent a lot more time on it than necessary. The tools are pretty crude.
- Organization: 5 days. I spent a couple hours every week thinking through the next steps and keeping everyone in synch. I remember one Saturday a couple weeks before the conference spending a solid 8 hours just organizing. I was shocked at how long it took me to do so.
- Fundraising: Way too long. Lots of emails. Lots of taking meetings and emails and calls that didn't pan out.
I think that was a bulk of my time. If you have any specific questions on where I spent my time, please reach out. I think I may be off by 1/2x to 2x for all those estimates. I could nail it down a little better.
