*Software Carpentry 2018 CarpentryCon Task Force
*Resources
- Google drive:  https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/0B2Mb22lbj2tjMFBiVE5oQ3ctZHc
- Connection info: https://bluejeans.com/356077269
- Past meeting minutes: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2018-CarpentryCon/minutes
- GitHub repo: https://github.com/swcarpentry/board/tree/master/TaskForces/2018-CarpentryCon/
- Draft schedule https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WdYsY7s1dFm9TigDAuIfvfnfLVthTwRsDOn2KIkJl1E/edit?usp=sharing

*Next meeting: Monday, June 5, 10:00 EST / 14:00 UTC / 16:00 CET
*Attendees
-   Malvika
- Mateusz
-  Fotis
-  Rayna
- Mark
- Jamie

*Apologies
-   Tracy
   

Notes:
    Interesting resource conference logistics:
http://www.confpeople.co.uk/about-us/glossary
http://www.confpeople.co.uk/free-venue-finding/room-capacity-calculator
diversity, accessiblitiy:
https://fosdem.org/2017/schedule/event/community_building_an_accessible_community/
https://www.software.ac.uk/blog/2017-06-01-improving-diversity-research-software-projects-and-events
https://github.com/dhuppenkothen/entrofy
cssconf on diversity:
http://cssconf.org/ & http://2016.cssconf.com.au/2016/07/01/programming-inclusion.html

discussion points:
blog post - summary of where we are so that the community knows where we are
Fotis will write it up this week
announcing CarpentryCon and bids at community call?
Rayna will put this on the schedule for a community call

NEW POSITIONS!!
- Secretary: Malvika
- Chair: Fotis
- Mark, the committee Gopher to help out when needed :)



THINGS WERE STILL WORKING ON
Action item: Elect a chair, secretary. 
Mateusz is the Steering Committee Representative. 
Rayna and Mateusz are not allowed to be the task force chairs, as per task force guidelines. Who is interested in these roles?
Volunteers?
Responsibilities: 
Chair: making sure we're meeting each month, making sure there is an agenda, chairs discussion during meeting  
Eventually will have a site that will do the "bulk" of the work - chair will be liaison to community
Secretary (co-chair? :)): taking notes during meeting, making PR to Github to post meeting notes

Action items: Develop a template for the bid to host the event. 
Previously we said June 5, agree on BID. 
Last month, Christian & Mateusz volunteered help with the drafting of the carpentrycon bid
Previously, some commnets about what should be contained in the BID were pasted in this google doc https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iLfRSnRJ_J7laBhFAQsMgjiX_-P5v3BFtQ4f5WaMZQ8/edit
Action item: have documents/weblinks that we can circulate describing carpentry con
note: same timeline for a document to announce the bid
Should contain our mission
Give some minimum requirements (must fit 100 people, must have 3 breakout)


Action item: continue recruiting people with conference experience to participate in this task force. 
Christian has been recruited :) - has been organizaing EuroPython. 
Other suggestions? Professsion staff?
  
  
  
Action item: Develope the program
Previously, Mark & Jamie volunteered to draft a  time line skeleton program
Google doc (with editing privileges): https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WdYsY7s1dFm9TigDAuIfvfnfLVthTwRsDOn2KIkJl1E/edit?usp=sharing
keynotes in the morning would give a theme for the day. We can ask the community what they theme of the days could be
Suggestion for the keynote speakers?
round of lightning talks to setup the theme - community driving the topics/organization
A semi-unconference style
Example: http://www.opencon2017.org
Panel session
discussion topics
A poster session could happend during the evening session the first night. Could be used to pick the lightening talks +1
World cafe format for a session on day-2 (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Cafe): participants can propose a topic/idea for the discussion
Remember that different types of activiites (posters, lightening talks, keynotes) attract different people. 
Mentor-mentee lunch? +1+1+1
Feedback on the program
There are a variety of schedules, so let's decide on how long the program should be - two or three days?
Timing of parellel sessions, how many of each thing should there be
Keeping in mind that conference site would need to have enough space to host things like workshops, lightning sessions, speakers/breakouts - so how many are we aiming for?
How to we figure out the interest and timeing of concurrent sessions?
Number of rooms: A big hall for the keynpte speaker, and based on the location the number of parallel session can be decided
GOOD PLACE TO START: consider an estimated number of attendees (estimate ~120 participants ?)
Depends on time/location - continent

Action item: Develop survey to send out to the group to gauge excitement and participate
Prepare a survey with the average.
How many breakouts?
Also remember that plenty of people will want to come and learn without contributing
Staelite workshop?+1
Rayna will start drafting the survey
Would there be any involvement of Data-carpentry?

Action item - Determine how to include NumFocus or other fiscallly responsible partners in the planning
Maneesh talks to NumFocus every Thursday
Sue McClathcy is secretary
NumFucus - insurance, VAT, 
Mateusz, Sue, and Christain have been talking about finances. 
Fotis and maybe Mark will be included in those discussions


Action #1: Prepare a Blog post on CarpentryCon so far (Fotis)
Action #2 (all): Look over the Bid and the Agendas
Action #3: Create the survey for the Bids


Older notes about the event. Where should these be stored?
budget?
-  main costs is catering. 
- paying for speakers and travel (travel grants)
- can we have other institutions administer the grants? Travel grants from ELIXR, money never passes through our hands
- registration fee
- taxes for the conference (VAT) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Value-added_tax
- must included numfocus because money will change hands
Sponsorship tiers
- need to revist who are our sponsors
Timeline
- when do we set the content?
- set an outline for the event before the bids  (keynotes, breakouts, food, hackathon)
- so that we know how much time for the whole conference is needed, what kind of sessions (handson, learning, discussions)
- do we want to have satellite events (hackathons?)
